/*************************************************************************

"FreePastry" Peer-to-Peer Application Development Substrate 

Copyright 2002, Rice University. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither  the name  of Rice  University (RICE) nor  the names  of its
contributors may be  used to endorse or promote  products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by RICE and the contributors on an "as is"
basis, without any representations or warranties of any kind, express
or implied including, but not limited to, representations or
warranties of non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. In no event shall RICE or contributors be liable
for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or
consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of
substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or
business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability,
whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence
or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even
if advised of the possibility of such damage.

********************************************************************************/
/*
 *  Created on Jun 27, 2005
 *
 *  TODO To change the template for this generated file go to
 *  Window - Preferences - Java - Code Style - Code Templates
 */
package rice.p2p.past.testing;

import rice.environment.Environment;
import rice.p2p.commonapi.IdFactory;
import rice.p2p.past.ContentHashPastContent;

/**
 * @version $Id: pretty.settings 2305 2005-03-11 20:22:33Z jeffh $
 * @author jstewart TODO To change the template for this generated type comment
 *      go to Window - Preferences - Java - Code Style - Code Templates
 */
public class DistPastTestContent extends ContentHashPastContent {
  String content;
  long timestamp;

  /**
   * Constructor for DistPastTestContent.
   *
   * @param env DESCRIBE THE PARAMETER
   * @param idf DESCRIBE THE PARAMETER
   * @param content DESCRIBE THE PARAMETER
   */
  public DistPastTestContent(Environment env, IdFactory idf, String content) {
    super(idf.buildId(content));
    this.content = content;
    this.timestamp = env.getTimeSource().currentTimeMillis();
  }

  /**
   * Gets the Content attribute of the DistPastTestContent object
   *
   * @return The Content value
   */
  public String getContent() {
    return content;
  }

  /**
   * Gets the Timestamp attribute of the DistPastTestContent object
   *
   * @return The Timestamp value
   */
  public long getTimestamp() {
    return timestamp;
  }
}
